Page 1 of 2 
UNITED NATIONS 
United Nations Interim 
Administration Mission 
in Kosovo 
 
UNMIK 
NATIONS UNIES 
Mission d’Administration 
Intérimaire des Nations Unies 
au Kosovo 
 
UNMIK 
 
Investigation Task Force 
 
 
 
Date: 
December 3rd, 2004 
 
 
Reference: 
ITF/kh / 04 / 03 
 
To:  
A: 
 
Mr. Søren Jessen-Petersen 
SRSG, UNMIK 
 
From: 
De: 
  
Wolfgang Nikolaus 
Team Leader, Investigation Task Force, UNMIK 
 
Subject: 
Object: 
 
 
Alleged misappropriation of funds – Manager 
(Case No. 050/04) 
 
 
1. 
The Investigation Task Force (ITF) has been investigating an allegation regarding 
administrative irregularities regarding the insurance coverage for Pristina Airport 
by a London-based Company, who then purchased the cover from Insurance 
Company 1 between 2001 and 2003.  
2. 
Based on extensive documentation obtained from UNMIK Pillar II, the Kosovo 
Trust Agency (KTA) and Public Enterprise Airport Pristina (PEAP), the ITF 
determined that the responsible Manager did not undertake efforts in 2002 or 
2003 to invite international tenders for the Airport’s insurance coverage. 
According to UNMIK regulations 1999/2 – Finance Administration Instruction on 
Public Procurement using Kosovo Consolidated Funds – and in view of the cost 
of the premiums of more than $125,000 USD, such a tender should have been 
undertaken. The Manager did not prepare an international tender for at least the 
period 2 October 2003 to 1 October 2004, instead, he concluded a contract in 
favour of Insurance Company 1 effecting insurance coverage pertaining to 
Pristina International Airport for a further year. It should be considered as to 
whether this conduct demonstrates probable cause with regard to the waste or 
misappropriation of public funds. Such an issue should be determined by a review 
of the matter by the Department of Justice. 
3. 
The ITF investigation also adduced evidence of double insurance coverage at 
Pristina International Airport. On 1 April 2004, an Icelandic Civil Aviation 
Administration (ICAA) assumed the responsibility to ensure air safety at Pristina 

Page 2 of 2 
International Airport and established new insurance coverage package for aviation 
liability guaranteed by Insurance Company 2. That task was undertaken at the 
request of UNMIK.  
4. 
The Manager had direct contact with the above-mentioned Insurance Ccompany 2 
for the preparation of the new coverage. Despite the fact that the Airport 
insurance coverage by London-based Company/Insurance Company 1 was valid 
until 2 October 2004, the insurance coverage arranged by UNMIK and the 
Insurance Company 2 commenced on 1 April 2004 and included the same 
insurance substance, but with even higher sums insured and several small 
amendments.  
5. 
The contract with Insurance Company 1 covered the period 2 October 2003 to 1 
October 2004. According to the Insurance Company 1 Contract Policy dated 9 
July 2002, paragraph 4 of the General Conditions, the “…Policy may be cancelled 
at any time at the written request of the Insured … provided 30 days notice …”. 
The Manager would appear to have ignored that fact. The airport therefore had 
two insurance packages for the period 1 April to 1 October 2004. The financial 
loss for Pristina International Airport arises from this duplicate insurance 
coverage. 
6. 
ITF investigators have conducted three administrative interviews, including of the 
suspect. As a result of these interviews, the ITF believes there is a prima facie 
case against the Manager for offence(s) against the Provisional Criminal 
Procedure Code of Kosovo.  
7. 
The ITF, by this memorandum, advises you of our preliminary findings and seeks 
your approval for the matter to be forwarded to the Department of Justice for 
appropriate judicial review. The ITF file will be made available to the Department 
of Justice for the purposes of that review and any future judicial investigation.  
8. 
Any questions or comments on the above information should be addressed to Mr 
Wolfgang Nikolaus, Head, ITF (ext. 3896) in Pristina, or Mr Mark Gough, 
ID/OIOS Vienna on +43 1 26060 5406. 
 
 
Copy to:  
Mr. James Wasserstrom, OPOE 
 
 
Mr. Paul-Lachal Roberts, OLAF 
 
 
Mr. Mark Gough, ID/OIOS 
 
 
 
